<h2>Description:</h2>
This is a example of a case study report done on targets data breach.
<br></br>Target's data breach serves as a reminder that cybersecurity needs continuous planning and updated knowledge to prevent hackers from continuing to get ahold of sensitive data. The main risk that jeopardized Target’s data was a phishing attack on Target's third-party vendors. This showed that Target had a vulnerability and needed better and more efficient security protocols. There was also a failure with Target's FireEye security system. The system sends alerts during a crisis, and the alerts at the time were not acted upon, showing a lack of incident response. According to an article by Jones, C targets data breach is one of the largest data breaches in history. After Home Depot was attacked by the same group in 2014, they now claim the largest data breach in history. Red River also mentions that third parties are most commonly compromised because they are not usually as secure. The business issue for Target is a loss of customer information and customer trust. This breach led to the theft of over 40 million credit card information from their customers as well as up to 70 million customers' information leaked.
 Target's mission is to deliver value, innovation, and exceptional guest experience. Target's generic strategy aims to offer unique products and shopping experiences. This incident set Target back a lot and the company had to work very hard to gain the trust of customers. Before the incident occurred, Target was up by 961 million. Also, before the data breach target had invested 1.6 million dollars in an advanced IT monitoring system that detects suspicious activity. According to an article by Fraud, the monitoring process involves analyzing transaction data to identify patterns and anomalies that may indicate suspicious activity. These warnings were ignored by that system which could have prevented the largest data breach in history.
 Roles that were played during the breach was HVAC who was one of Target's vendors from Pennsylvania, had access to Target’s information. The firm’s user code and password were taken because an employee from HVAC fell victim to a phishing attempt from hackers. Target's security team also played a role and failed to act on the FireEye system alert, which missed the opportunity to prevent the breach. Hackers were later pinpointed to a group based in Russia and Ukraine that is a central hub for the theft of information online. These cybercriminals played a role in taking money from over 40 million customers. This same group was also involved in a data breach attack against Home Depot in the year of 2014. Customers played a role as victims of this attack and fell victim to shopping at Target. Their credit card information was at risk as well as their personal information which ended up for sale on the black web. 
The black web is a website where stolen data is for sale. Another role played in this data breach would be the banks who had to be reimbursed for card reissuing, and all the activities related to the communication with customers and fines. When all was said and done Target had to pay out and exceed over $500 million of cost to fix the breach and endured the legal costs for several years after. Target is responsible for many different lawsuits seeking millions of dollars per lawsuit just in damages. Groups that are involved are financial institutions, consumers, and shareholders. The banks believe it is Target's responsibility to cover the cost. The card cost per replacement lies between $5 to $15. After the breach, they had to replace over 15.3 million debit and credit cards. 
Also before the data breach attack target was PCI DSS certified and had implemented various ways of protecting their data. After the data breach target lost the trust of a lot of customers and experienced a profit loss of 46%. Target failed to provide a more extensive protocol for responding to security alerts. Target moving forward needs to invest in an incident response team to prevent future data from being leaked. Target is competing against retail market players like Walmart and Amazon, and to keep the competitive advantage they need to invest in more security against large data breaches. Target supplier power allows for negotiating but they are very much dependent on supplier relationships. Buyer power Consumers can easily switch to a different retailer for the same product. If Target isn’t correctly keeping customers' data protected, and being transparent with Customers moving forward they can easily change which store they decided to take their business to. 
 Another protective measure that should have been taken after the data breach would be for Target to have regular security training for its employees to avoid phishing attempts, ultimately protecting customer data. According to an article by Cofense security teams can use this knowledge to prioritize suspicious email reports and create a culture of awareness. As a manager, my takeaway from this case would be to keep my team and employees informed about the risks of a data breach how it can affect the entire company as a whole, as well as customers, and the effects it can have on millions of people. I think proper training on data breaches needs to be involved for anyone who on-boards with Target. I believe Target needs to have an extensive incident response plan that includes not just detection of data breaches but includes a plan to act immediately, so everyone knows exactly what to do during an extreme crisis. 
I believe that another alternative would be to have advanced real-time threat detection that includes automated responses to the alerts. Upgrading the existing system could cancel out threats and have an automated response, which would allow for no human error, of failing to see the alert. Although this is an investment it could potentially save millions in losses, compared to the cost loss companies have to endure during a data breach. This would also require training to manage the system, but I believe the cost of the updated security system would save more money overall for the company.  Employees might have to deal with a learning curve of the new systems, and increased workload but this will help employees gain new valuable skills that they can utilize for future endeavors. This system would also help gain the trust of customers and help rebrand the company's name. More people will be willing to use a business if they know their data is being protected. The reputation of a business can steer people away, especially when the same products are most likely sold at competing retail stores like Walmart. 
Another idea could be to invest in a more advanced third-party vendor who does regular security assessments, and audits and they are conforming with Target’s security measures. I think having all parties involved and working together to decrease the risk of a data breach is important. It will increase the upfront technology costs, but this will ensure that security is managed and safe, allowing customers to purchase with peace of mind from Target’s corporation. Vendors might have to comply with stricter data measures, but this would also allow vendors to train and teach their staff about the risk of data breaches/phishing attempts. This will ultimately benefit the vendors by increasing their consumer and their data security. 
I was surprised Target invested 1.6 million into advanced warning systems but still did not act on these alerts. This shows that proper training and protocols were lacking on the target's end and should be taken seriously. I was also surprised that one phishing email could affect so many people and businesses. I also find it very bizarre that over 15.3 million debit and credit cards had to be replaced, to me that shows how many people this affected and how big this breach was. The cost to replace the credit cards was millions of dollars let alone the other costs Target had to endure all because nobody had properly been trained to these alerts and didn’t follow protocol.  I believe Target made a great choice in starting its $100-million-dollar project to create the chip and pin system for payment. This project shows Target’s customers that Target truly cared for the loss of data they were responsible for. The fact that they started this project and still had so much damage to pay for, shows they had a lot of damage control to work on with customers.
I believe if I were a manager, I would keep everyone up to date on what phishing attempts are and what they could display like. Also, as a manager, I would ensure that I was being honest and communicating truthfully to my customers to build back the trust that was lost during the breach. One way could be showing customers how you plan to improve data security moving forward. The company notified customers within four days and removed the malware during that time. To me I would have warned customers as soon as possible, to give those customers time to get ahold of their banks to prevent a loss on their end. I believe it’s important to be clear and communicate openly. According to an article by Mackay, J after a data breach occurs some repercussions are deeply impactful such as The toll on financial loss, The impact on reputational damage, The disruptive effect of operation downtime, legal implications and actions, and the impact of sensitive data loss. Hackers continue to find new ways to gain access and corporate data credentials, without protective measures in place corporations will eventually fall victim as well. 
In conclusion, at the end of the day, the customer is a genuine victim of these attacks. Industry like Walmart, Target, etc. need to keep customer information secure. It’s important to have a team that focuses on data breaches and ensuring it doesn’t happen again. As AI evolves the internet and one’s data is becoming harder to protect, it’s important to continue to combat these attacks and continue our knowledge on how to protect our data from cybercriminals. This is why it is important to be self-aware of where you use your debit and credit card as an individual. It’s important to keep track and ensure that the information you take out matches up to your transactions. Hackers have been able to obtain and hack information from people using their cards at gas stations, stores, social media, and public wi-fi. To ensure this doesn’t happen retail stores need to act and invest in malware, security protocols, VPNs, and extensive security and training. These small mistakes and overlooks for monitoring the network security are critical for everyone who is involved. The customers involved may have to face identity theft which can take years and years of battle to fight for your privacy.  As a future manager, it’s essential to take these lessons to heart, ensuring that the organization not only invests in the right tools but also in the training and protocols that support them. <br></br>
Work Cited
International, F. (2023, April 21). Transaction monitoring - everything you need to know. Fraud.com. https://www.fraud.com/post/transaction-monitoring#:~:text=The%20monitoring%20process%20involves%20analysing,no%20apparent%20legitimate%20business%20purpose. 
Jones, C. (2022, May 3). Warnings (& lessons) of the 2013 Target Data Breach. Red River | Technology Decisions Aren’t Black and White. Think Red. https://redriver.com/security/target-data-breach 
MacKay, J. (2023, December 19). 5 damaging consequences of Data Breach. MetaCompliance. https://www.metacompliance.com/blog/data-breaches/5-damaging-consequences-of-a-data-breach#:~:text=When%20it%20comes%20to%20the,profound%20erosion%20of%20consumer%20trust. 
Phishing training: Why comprehensive training matters. Cofense. (2023, October 19). https://cofense.com/knowledge-center/phishing-training/#:~:text=Employees%20need%20security%20awareness%20training,to%20prioritize%20suspicious%20email%20reports. 


